Your mission, should you choose
to accept it, is to go ahead and
refactor the UsersPage that
we've been working on.
And this, I'm gonna use script setup
to kind of trim down some of that code.
And then if you have any props or
emits you want to practice with,
go ahead and do that.
And otherwise, keep on moving stuff in,
playing around, seeing how you feel.
Welcome back, everyone,
how was the exercise?
If anyone had any questions
about how that went,
please feel free to drop
that inside of the chat.
In the meantime, I'll go ahead and
run through that solution.
All right, so
switching back to cest-la-vue,
Then run dev, great, great.
All right, so we don't need to
see what's happening right now.
So we're just gonna actually
just full-screen this so
that people can go all in
as far as what's going on.
So what are we doing here, we are gonna
go open up our user's page, and
let's see what we got.
Well, everything's already been migrated,
in that everything is inside of
async setup, so this is good.
So let's start by adding that setup
attribute, that's the first step to do.
Once you do that, you'll realize,
okay, this is interesting,
now we've gotta start deleting some stuff.
So let's start deleting that export cuz
we don't need that anymore, boom, gone.
Well, we mentioned before that all
components are automatically registered
once they're imported.
So that's gone too, so we can delete that.
And then finally, we already said
that the script should be setup, so
we can delete this block, too.
And once we do that, you'll notice that
the reactive, which was graying out
earlier cuz it said it wasn't being used,
basically, it detected the scope
of the object and was like, I don't
see it within the scope of the module.
But you're fine now because we've deleted
all those exports, and we save that.
We got one more bit actually,
we can delete the return.
And so now we can verify
that everything is working.
And just to make sure, we can just do a
123, there you go, did update, fantastic.
Now, the only other thing, too,
is that we just wanna practice really
quick using the define props and emits.
The way that would work is let's go ahead
and then say, conts props = defineProps.
And we could say something like title,
for example,
and type: String, and
then we can do a default of users.
And so to show that this works,
we'll come inside of here.
And let's start by saying this is a Test,
so we test, great.
And we can swap this out now for
title, refresh, there we go.
Now, something was brought up,
though, regarding, wait a second,
how did you call defineProps
without importing it?
And more importantly, well,
let me fix this part first,
you'll notice that because we're not
actually calling props anywhere,
there's no actually need to do that.
So you can actually just leave
it off like this right now.
But the question here around defineProps,
why is it not yelling at us that we
don't know what this is looking for?
So the reason this is the case is because
when you're inside a script setup,
basically the compiler knows that these
specific functions are gonna exist.
So in other words,
defineProps and defineEmits,
which I actually didn't clarify earlier,
is only specific to script setup.
If you try using defineEmits,
defineProps inside of an options API,
that'll just break, because why would you?
If you're in options API
leveraging the setup,
then you should already be
using the other options.
And so in other words, the compiler knows
that it's technically already a global, so
treat it like a global import for this.
That said, though,
I personally am typically a fan,
especially if this is a newer codebase,
to just leave the import explicit.
That way, no one new is like,
wait, what's going on?
There's no assumed knowledge here,
we're good.
>> So why is reactive not like that?
>> Why is reactive not like that?
So if we delete that and save,
the reason for that is because reactive
cannot be assumed in this context
that it will be imported.
So in other words, to think of it another
way, is that when this code is built and
compiled, defineProps basically just
reverts back to its normal self.
If it's not detected,
it'll get taken out, basically,
so there's some kind of
optimization happening.
I can't explain the details of it, but
there's a reason why defineProps is okay
but then other helper methods like ref,
reactive, Vue cannot
intelligently guess those things.
So as a result,
it forces you to be very explicit that
you want to use these helper methods.
So yeah, they're called, I think,
compiler-specific helper functions, but
anyways.
And then the other thing we
wanna practice is defineEmits.
And that, once again, we can say
something like update-user-list.
And so
you can imagine how would that work.
If a user clicked a button,
that update-user-list,
it would send it to the parent,
maybe you have to send some new data down.
That's how that basically
might be working.
Okay, nope, I think we're good.
That's the thing in the event anyone
here is coming from Vue 2 and
if you're using Vetur as
your VS Code extension.
Just a reminder to go ahead and
basically disable,
uninstall that when you're working on Vue
3 projects going forward because Volar and
Vetur will basically collide, so
just wanted to make that note.
Here we go, by the way, you see this?
So this is just a small, lets you know,
defineProps is a compiler macro,
no longer needs to be imported.
Again, it's not really gonna
matter at the end of the day,
cuz you see that it's not actually yelling
at you inside of your code editor.
But it is trying to let you know that
it is technically a global import.